# CIS-106-Spencer-Lempinen

## Assignment 1

I am attending Harper to earn my associate in science (Comp Sci). I was encouraged by my counselor to take this class to make sure I get a good feel for what I will be getting myself into and make sure that this is something that I want to spend the next 3 years studying. I am hoping with taking this class I will learn some of the basics of coding and logic that way I can understand the field that I want to enter. Even in just creating this GITHUB account and learning how to use the repository and create a folder I am already intimidated, but I am very eager to understand.

## Assignment 2

Through Reading Chapter 1 I was intrigued by Python mainly due to Its Readability. Through some other research online it seems that Python has a very clean syntax and is fairly readable compared to other languages.After looking online I want to be able to create a interactive Mad Lib program and maybe even a Text based adventure game. I tried Visual Studio by Microsoft and Pycharm by Jetbrains. I believe Pycharm is going to be my IDE of choice. Its user interface seems friendly and I found it to be less intimidating than visual studio's. Initially I thought visual Studio would be better only becuase it is a Microsoft program but for this class I belive Pycharm will be the better option. Jetbrains Pycharm also has a autocomplete syntax feature which seems to help me avoid errors and in the future, it could help save time.

## Assignment 3

Upon completion of Activity 7, which entailed converting a dog's age in "human years" to the equivalent in "dog years," I gained a significant understanding of several key concepts. One of the key takeaways was the importance of adhering to the correct order of operations when constructing a program. Initially, I encountered several errors in my flowchart due to improper declaration and assignment of variables. Additionally, I learned the significance of proper formatting for output, as a lack of attention in this area can lead to spacing errors for end-users. The successful completion of the program filled me with a sense of accomplishment and an eagerness to tackle more complex projects, such as utilizing "if" statements. Overall, this was a very fun activity.

## Assignment 4

I learned several important concepts from writing this program in Python. Firstly, I gained more experience using input/output operations and became familiar with storing values as both floats and integers. I realized the importance of storing inputs as floats, as it allows for decimal values to be used. One of the most significant lessons I learned from this assignment was the importance of using logic and control flow in programming. Having a solid understanding of these concepts helped me to approach the problem in a logical and systematic manner, which was essential for writing a successful program. Overall, this activity was a valuable learning experience that has helped me to deepen my undertanding and hopefully will help me apply this to personal projects like creating a text based adventure game and more importantly implementing these skills in a professional setting.

## Assignment 5

In this assignment, I was tasked with focusing on functions. I used the same activity as in Assignment 4 (Monthly, Weekly, Annual Pay Calculator) but I had to create input, output, and calculation functions. This was far more difficult for me than I had expected. I have been working with Python a lot and I seemed to understand how to define functions and use them to call variables into the main program. Flowgorithm really forced me to pay attention to the order in which I was using the functions and making sure I was labeling all of my variables both inside and outside the functions in a way that would be readable to someone else. I found this activity to give me a good feeling of accomplishment. I can see how this would be very useful in a professional setting. Functions can be reused throughout the program, which makes for a shorter amount of code needing to be written and I feel that this would also help organize the code and improve the readability of the entire program.

## Assignment 6

In this assignment, I chose to undertake an activity that I had not done previously. I selected the age calculator, where the user's age is calculated in months, days, hours, and seconds. I found this assignment to be challenging yet enjoyable. After completing Assignment 5, I felt confident in writing functions in Python and comprehended the importance of labeling variables consistently and legibly. I was intrigued by how I would perform this calculation if I were given the exact birthday, but I am not yet familiar with conditional statements. This activity was beneficial in continuing to keep me organized and in understanding more about how programming operates. Essentially, you have a set of functions that can be reused, making the main code easier to read and modify. This is extremely important in a professional setting, as it is essential to have readable and maintainable code.

## Assignment 7

 This activity is very fun, and I have already begun getting ahead of myself trying to implement a dictionary so I could add a fifth option of giving the user all four results in four separate lines of text. Hopefully, we will get to that soon. I enjoyed using the if-else statements a lot. At first, I was confused on where I should put this statement, but soon realized that it should go in my display results function in order to keep a good flow and readability. I was also a bit confused on how I would make it a string and print it with some flavor text. But, I realized that instead of typing "return" after each "elif", I could just write print lines, and then I could make the variable into a string and also add flavor text. I see endless possibilities for this concept and imagine this is a very important concept to have in a programmer's toolkit.
 
 ## Assignment 8
 
This activity really pushed me. I ended up watching a bunch of YouTube videos to get a grasp on how looping works. Although I believe I need more practice, I did begin to understand, which was very gratifying. I chose the activity where I ask for a number and the amount of expressions the user wants printed. All of the writing for the initial input and output functions is something I don't even need to think about. However, when it came to the loop processing function, I was stumped. I did figure out that I needed a for loop that iterates from 1 up to the number provided (number of expressions the user wants) and then multiplies each of those iterations (1-?) by the value the user inputted and expresses them as expressions. I am still learning and trying to understand, and hopefully, the next few assignments will give me good practice with these concepts.

## Assignment 9

The loop's seem to be my weakest link. I am still practicing and working on my understanding of this but I belive this assignment really helped. I am understanding that the "while" loop is used to repeat a peice of code "while" an expression is true. Once the expression is not true the program will break and continue on with the rest of the code. I really liked this activity becuase it implimented everything from implementing math into using function and type conversion which seem to be somthing I am doing without any problems. I plan on continuing to practice the "while" loop as it seems to be the most difficult for me right now but I am feeling ambitious about it.

## Assignment 10

This week I learned how important "Do" loop is and also how it is different from the while loop.A Do loop executes its block of code at least once before checking the loop condition. This means that the loop will always execute at least once, even if the loop condition is false from the beginning. In contrast, a While loop checks the loop condition before executing its block of code. If the condition is false from the start, the loop will not execute at all. I chose to do the Guessing Game activity and really leanred how a Do loop will just keep repeating itself guessing the number until the user eneters equal or there are no other possible asnwers than the one it output.

## Assignment 11

So this week was about static array's. I chose the activity where the user would input a year and a month and the program would look up that month in the array and print out the amount of days in that month of that year. This also included me to work on my loops in order to check if the year was a leap year to give the corresponsing days for febuary of that year. I also used a loop to ensure the user did not type in the wrong number and when they did it would re print the number telling them it was wrong and then re loop to asking fore a number 1-12. for some reason this had me stumped but I did figure it out. This assignment really pushed me to use all of the tools I had in my tool belt in order to get this working properly which I truly enjoyed and felt very gratified.

## Assignment 12

This assignment was all about dynamic arrays. I decided to do the guessing game which was an activity I did previously but felt it could still teach me alot. The dynamic Array allowing me to store all of the guesses the programe guessed until the user's number was guessed and then it would display each guess in one string. The dynamic array came easy to me becuase I had used it in a previous assignment but I did have a little trouble doing the output function. I was stumped on how to display the entire list as one string with commas inbetween. I discovered how to join all of the guesses in the list and display them all as one string which I found very cool. This assignmnet really showed me how much I have learned but also how much more I will need to learn. 

## Assignment 13

This assignment was all about strings. I intially chose the activity of repeating a line of text the user input and having it repeat base on the amount of characters and lines the user wanted. I tried for a few hours to get it to output correctly and was having alot of trouble with it. I decided to go for the activity where it would sparse a line of values that the user input. This seemed to be far easier to figure out than the intial activity. I am going to continue to work on activity 4 becuase it uses different concepts than this acitivy did like len(). I found this activity and the concept of strings cool becuase we can take what the user inputs and manipulate it completley. I could see this being cool for creating a program that will take what the user inputs and output a annagram or something along those lines.

## Assignment 14

This assignment included both using and manipulating strings like the assignment above, but it also involved reading data from a file. This part was very cool for me because it showed me how and where the files need to be in order for the program to access them. This programming project pushed me to work with strings even more than the previous one. It required me to first read and ensure that the strings were in the proper place or if they were even there. From there, I would manipulate the strings and store them in lists.The next thing I really enjoyed was creating an error checking function. It was cool because all the other functions could feed error names to this function, and then it would print the appropriate message. Lastly, I enjoyed that I could have multiple files saved to check for bad data or empty files by changing the filename in the program quickly.

## Final Project

This course has taught me so much. First, I would like to appreciate the way the class is set up and how easy it was for me to follow along with the course on my own and learn. Second, I would like to say that this course really sparked something inside me that I had a feeling was there but wasn't sure of. I've never had so much fun taking a course. The problem-solving is what got me; I would spend a couple of hours trying to understand something or trying to implement something and not get it, but I would go for a walk or be at work and have an idea or a revelation on how I can solve the problem. This class taught me all of the basics of Python, but more importantly, it made me appreciate the complexities of writing code and how much more I have to learn. I spent a lot of time outside of this course learning other things about Python that I really wanted to understand. This course and my professor made me realize how much I really do like doing this, and I feel much more confident about my educational and career path moving forward
